Amazon ECS - Elastic Container Service
Amazon EKS - ELastic Kubernetes Services
Container Orchestration - We need processes for starting, stopping, restarting, monitoring containers or multiple containers ECS/EKS will help us to manage the containers

WHAT IS A CONTAINER?
While containers are often referred to as a new technology, the idea started in the 1970s with certain Linux kernels having the ability to separate their processes through isolation. At the time, this was configured manually, making operations complex.With the evolution of the open source software community, containers evolved. Today, containers are used as a solution to problems of traditional compute, including the issue of getting software to run reliably when it moves from one compute environment to another.A container is a standardized unit that packages up your code and all of its dependencies. This package is designed to run reliably on any platform, because the container creates its own independent environment. This makes it easy to carry workloads from one place to another, such as from development to production or from on-premises to the cloud.

WHAT IS DOCKER?
When you hear the word container, you may associate it with Docker. Docker is a popular container runtime that simplifies the management of the entire operating system stack needed for container isolation, including networking and storage. Docker makes it easy to create, package, deploy, and run containers.

Containers share the same operating system and kernel as the host they exist on, whereas virtual machines contain their operating system. Since each virtual machine has to maintain a copy of an operating system, there’s a degree of wasted space.A container is more lightweight. They spin up quicker, almost instantly. This difference in startup time becomes instrumental when designing applications that need to scale quickly during input/output (I/O) bursts.While containers can provide speed, virtual machines offer you the full strength of an operating system and offer more resources, like package installation, a dedicated kernel, and more.

ORCHESTRATE CONTAINERS
In AWS, containers run on EC2 instances. For example, you may have a large instance and run a few containers on that instance

MANAGE CONTAINERS WITH AMAZON ELASTIC CONTAINER SERVICE (AMAZON ECS)
Amazon ECS is an end-to-end container orchestration service that allows you to quickly spin up new containers and manage them across a cluster of EC2 instances.To run and manage your containers, you need to install the Amazon ECS Container Agent on your EC2 instances. This agent is open source and responsible for communicating back to the Amazon ECS service about cluster management details.

To prepare your application to run on Amazon ECS, you create a task definition. The task definition is a text file, in JSON format, that describes one or more containers. A task definition is similar to a blueprint that describes the resources you need to run that container, such as CPU, memory, ports, images, storage, and networking information.

USE KUBERNETES WITH AMAZON ELASTIC KUBERNETES SERVICE (AMAZON EKS)
Kubernetes is a portable, extensible, open source platform for managing containerized workloads and services. By bringing software development and operations together by design, Kubernetes created a rapidly growing ecosystem that is very popular and well established in the market.If you already use Kubernetes, you can use Amazon EKS to orchestrate these workloads in the AWS Cloud.Amazon EKS is conceptually similar to Amazon ECS, but there are some differences.
