It follows a shared security model. Both AWS and I(customer) are responsible for the security of the application.

When you begin working with the AWS Cloud, managing security and compliance is a shared responsibility between AWS and you. To depict this shared responsibility, AWS created the shared responsibility model. This distinction of responsibility is commonly referred to as security of the cloud, versus security in the cloud.

WHAT IS AWS RESPONSIBLE FOR?
AWS is responsible for security of the cloud. This means AWS is required to protect and secure the infrastructure that runs all the services offered in the AWS Cloud. AWS is responsible for:
Protecting and securing AWS Regions, Availability Zones, and data centers, down to the physical security of the buildings
Managing the hardware, software, and networking components that run AWS services, such as the physical server, host operating systems, virtualization layers, and AWS networking components

WHAT IS THE CUSTOMER RESPONSIBLE FOR?
You’re responsible for security in the cloud. When using any AWS service, you’re responsible for properly configuring the service and your applications, as well as ensuring your data is secure.The level of responsibility you have depends on the AWS service. Some services require you to perform all the necessary security configuration and management tasks, while other more abstracted services require you to only manage the data and control access to your resources.

ROOT USER (the email address that i use while signing up for AWS) - it has almost all of the access and it should be protected at all cost. It must be protected with the MFA(Multi Factor Authenticator). Do not use root user for the everyday actions.

Understand Authentication
When you create your AWS account, you use a combination of an email address and a password to verify your identity. If the user types in the correct email and password, the system assumes the user is allowed to enter and grants them access. This is the process of authentication.Authentication ensures that the user is who they say they are. Usernames and passwords are the most common types of authentication, but you may also work with other forms, such as token-based authentication or biometric data like a fingerprint. Authentication simply answers the question, “Are you who you say you are?”

Understand Authorization
Once you’re inside your AWS account, you might be curious about what actions you can take. This is where authorization comes in. Authorization is the process of giving users permission to access AWS resources and services. Authorization determines whether the user can perform an action—whether it be to read, edit, delete, or create resources. Authorization answers the question, “What actions can you perform?” 

The AWS root user has two sets of credentials associated with it. One set of credentials is the email address and password used to create the account. This allows you to access the AWS Management Console. The second set of credentials is called access keys, which allow you to make programmatic requests from the 
AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) or AWS API
Access keys consist of two parts:
An access key ID, for example, A2lAl5EXAMPLE
A secret access key, for example, wJalrFE/KbEKxE
Similar to a username and password combination, you need both the access key ID and secret access key to authenticate your requests via the AWS CLI or AWS API. Access keys should be managed with the same security as an email address and password.

